# Assignment2_Game3_Mastermind
Game 3: Mastermind Main task: The program should allow the user to play Mastermind against the computer. The computer should generate a random code of four colours from a range of six different colours (e.g., Red, Green, Blue, Yellow, Orange, Pink). There should not be any repeating colours in the generated code. The player should be able to enter a guess, for example ‘RGBY’. The program should print ‘+’ if the colour occurs in the code and is in the right position and ‘-’ if the guessed colour is in the code but is in the wrong position. Any ‘+’ symbols should be displayed first, and, the computer does not reveal which colour in the guess was right. So, for example, if the player’s guess was ‘GPBY’ and the code was ‘RGBY’, the computer should display: ++- The number of allowed guesses is 12. If the player runs out of guesses, the computer should tell them that they have lost the game and reveal the code. If the player enters the correct code, they win the game, and the computer should print a congratulatory Updated August 2020 4 of 7 Department of Computer Science message. Irrespective of whether the player wins or loses, the program should ask the user if they want to play again or quit. Variations: • Student A: At the start of the game, the player should be able to choose the number of the colours in the range (6-10), the number of colours in the code (3 or 4), and the maximum number of guesses allowed. At the end of each game, a score should be displayed. The score is calculated by taking the number of guesses remaining, adding the number of colours in the range, then adding the number of colours in the code. • Student B: The player should be able to choose whether they want to play with repeating colours in the code or not. If they choose to play with repeating colours, the game should correctly support this through the gameplay. Ideas for additional functionalities for either variation (optional): ➢ The program keeps the player vs computer score; for example, if the player has won a game, the score is 1-0. If the player continues playing, the score should be updated after each game, accordingly. ➢ Your own ideas.
